Question:
Design a system like pasteBin, where a user can enter a piece of text and get a randomly generated URL for public access.

Answer:

Step 1: Scope the problem - Define features and use cases.
1. User can write some content and then create a url.
2. Content can't be changed once created.
3. URL will expire if not used in last 15 days.
4. User should not be able to guess then urls by content.
5. The system has a frontend as well as an API.
6. Analytics for each url can be seen by click stats link on that page.


Step 2: Make reasonable assumptions
1. There will be millions of urls and thus millions of documents.
2. Lot of URLs will not be used.
3. Some documents will be accessed more than others.

Step 2: Draw the major components
1. As we don't need to query within a document, doesn't make sense to store the document in database.
2. We will store document as files. Problem is more like storing static files.
3. Files can be stored in various servers.
4. We will have a database which stores url to file location path.
5. As we need url analytics, we will add table in database for every visit containing columns like timestamp, ip address, location etc.

Step 3: Identify the key issues
1. Some documents will be accessed more frequently:
   a. For more frequent documents, we can store them in cache (LRU or LFU)
   b. We dont need to invalidate the cache as document will never be changed.
   c. Whenever url gets expired or cache reaches limit, then only we need to remove a url from cache.
2. Database scaling:
   a. As there are millions of data, we might need to scale database.
   b. In that case we need to do database sharding. (We can do sharding in both SQL and NoSQL databases)
   c. Sharding can be done on basis of hash(url)%N.
   d. For url to file map, we dont even need to store in database. Our file server will be based on hash(url)%N.
   e. The only problem in removing database is when we need to increase number of file servers.
3. Generating random urls
   a. We can use random GUID.
   b. If for generated GUID, alrady file exists in database, then this means collision happened, so we will create new random GUID.